The Joe Rogan experience.
The, the zionionist thing is, uh, define the difference between Jewish,
Jewish and Zionist.
Okay.
Zionist is the idea of that the Jews have a right to national.
Self-determination the Jewish SHA you go, yeah, please.
You looked at me like I should. No, no, no, no, no, no.
The Jewish longing to return to the land of Israel is something that's like
inescapable. If you read the Bible, right, like it's all over there.
The whole idea of, and you can discount it, discount God,
whatever the fact is is that the Jews are a people that were
birth sort of in this land, which we now call the land of Israel.
And they somehow, and they were expelled by the Romans around 2000 years ago.
And then they came back to that land, right?
It's it's like they defied the logic of history in doing that because
by all rights, they were an indigenous group to that land.
They were kicked out and expelled and then they went back 2000 years later.
Like it's a crazy, extraordinary story.
So leave that to one part Zionism, the way that I,
and the way that I,
I think is the simplest definition is the belief in the Jewish right to
self-determination and it's the Jewish liberation movement.
And so in the ni let's go back to like pre 1948,
which is the year that the state of Israel is established. And you have Jews in,
you know, Poland and all of these other places debating,
like what is the way that we can solve our constant,
like the systemic oppression that we are constantly enduring.
And there are all of these different responses to that problem.
One argument was the socialist argument. You know, if we, or the, you know,
the anti-capitist argument, if the, the problem is capitalism,
and if only we defeat capitalism, anti-Semitism will go away.
Some argued that total assimilation was the right way to solve it.
We just need to kind of disappear as Jews.
That's the only way we'll be fully accepted. And another group, you know,
which was not even the most popular group, is this idea of,
we need to be able to determine our own fate and the,
we will never be fully accepted.
The only way that we can determine our own fate is if,
is this idea of us having our own state and our own army,
where we can protect ourselves.
And that is ultimately the idea that sort of wins out.
So when you're having a debate about, you know, when people say today,
they're an anti- Zionist. Yeah.
The reason that that is so problematic is they're not making that argument in
1920s, Eastern Europe, when the state doesn't exist.
It's one thing to be an anti- Zionist in theory. Right? It's the same.
The analogy I like to make is if we're a couple and we wanna have a baby and
we're debating, should we have the baby? Can we afford the baby?
Where are we gonna send the baby to school? All this stuff.
That's a totally moral argument to make. You can't make that argument of,
should we have the baby after the baby is born? The baby is born. It exists.
Israel exists. It's a place. It's not an idea. It's not an abstraction.
It is a place that contains the largest Jewish community on planet earth.
And so when people say that Israel doesn't have a right to exist, it's like,
what are you talking about? It exists. So what do you want? What?
So I ask the person that makes the anti Zionist argument,
what imagine will happen? Like, are you, do you think that you're,
you're advocating for an genocide right away, or like,
you have to have no sense of middle Eastern history or politics
to make the argument that you can be a minority in that region without
protection. We know what that looks like. That looks like the,
the story of the Azidis. It looks like the story of the Kurds,
the story of the Zo, austriatnians the story, frankly,
of Christians who are gonna be completely expelled from the middle east,
within the next decade, which is a story. No one talks about.
So the anti- Zionist sentiment, when people start talking about Zionist,
what they're essentially talking about is Israel just existing. Yes.
They're anti-isra.
Existing. Correct.
And Jeremy Corbin made this very plain where he actually said the words,
the BBC has a bias towards believing that Israel has a right to exist.
He said that, yes. Yes.
So he's on SHA can confirm and, and he's on the left. Like he's on the, he.
Hit him. The eyess the, the sort of anti- Zionism,
which bleeds into anti-Semitism of the far left. Meaning let me put it this way.
Anti- Zionism has become such a plank of like normative political progressiveism
that if you're an 18 year old and you go onto a college campus, and you're like,
during the, you know, orientation week,
you're signing up for like legalizing pot club and better rights for cafeteria
workers. Oh. And by the way, you know,
the boycot divest move sanctions movement against Israel,
which is an anti-zyionist movement. You're not an anti-Semite,
you don't hate Jews.
You're just kinda like swimming along with progressive waters because that's how
successful this movement has been. But if you step back and you're like, wait,
hold on. There's a political movement. Gaining popularity in the west.
That was in fact embodied in the person of Jeremy Corbin and what became of his
labor party that believes that there's only one state in the world that doesn't
have a right to exist. Like that's crazy.
I can't believe he actually said that he did do, he, he.
He said a lot of things. Apparently I'm trying.
To find, he definitely said it he's, he's a ridiculous person.
One of my favorite things that he said was, I mean, he's, what is he like 60?
He's like my pronouns. Are he him like, shut the up. Like,
I see what you're doing. I know what you're doing. Just, I mean, he.
Gots crushed. Yeah.
I think the thing to like the analogy you I make is like,
America has done horrible things. We have, you know,
the example everyone loves right now is children in cages at the border. Yeah.
It's a disgusting imoral thing that we're doing,
but no one goes from that horrible policy to say,
America shouldn't exist. Right. And we should just meld into Canada or Mexico.
Right. And by the way,
they're saying that they're making that argument in a context where they are
literally surrounded by neighbors who want to murder as many
Jews and Jewish Israelis as possible. Like
it it's an imorallar it's, it's a, like, it's,
it's an argument that I really can't wrap my mind around.
Like how people get away with making it. Well, it's.
A strange concept to even say that it doesn't have the right to exist when it
does exist. Correct. But so I could see how you could say, did he say it?
What does he say? Jeremy Corbin accused of antisemitism thousand 11 video,
which he questions Israel's right. To exist and says,
the BBC is biased in favor of the Jewish state questions are right to
exist. See,
I could see how someone could say that there is evidence that some
Israeli, Israeli soldiers have done horrific things to Palestinian.
Of course they have. Yes.
Of course they have. Yes. I will never deny that.
And I could see how you could look at the,
where Palestine is in the state of the Palestinian people and saying there has
to be a better way for them. It has to be, uh, a better civilization for them.
It has to, it has to improve <affirmative>. These are human beings. They have,
it has to be a better, just a, a,
a better situation. I mean,
they're not even recognized as a true state or as a true country,
by a lot of people I could see that. See idea. I believe that. Yeah.
I'm sure you, I believe that because that's my human's.
Distinguished, right?
Yes. I, I believe that because I'm a human being and I believe that also,
because I'm a Zionist,
I don't want the state of Israel and the state of that's supposed to be
embodying Jewish ideas to be occupying in other people like
that is a state like that is.
Horrible. What can be done.
About, well, here's the problem, right?
We saw what happened in the Israeli pullout from the Gaza strip.
It pulled out completely all of the settlements from the Gaza strip.
There's not a single Jew left. There it's completely uteinrine.
And yet hamass is still sending tons of rockets from the Gaza strip
into Israel, the occupation,
the area is ended it's over and that's still going on.
And so then you have to ask yourself, like, does the average Palestinian, like,
I believe that the average Palestinian I've spent time in the west bank talking
to Palestinians whose lives are imisrated by the,
by the Israeli occupation. Like they just wanna live a normal life, you know?
And, and yet they are being held hostage.
I spoke to this young mother in Gaza who fled, and she said to me on the phone,
we're being sort of amiserated twice, you know, once was by Israel.
And now by our own leaders by Hamas, right? These are like,
lepttocratic authoritarian regimes. That hate women that hate gay people.
I mean, it's horrible. Like life under these regimes is absolutely horrible.
So the problem is Israel then sees what happens in Gaza. And they're like, okay,
we're in this situation where we wanna be a liberal democracy and yet we're,
you know, occupying in other people. It's an, it's an untenable situation.
If you want to be a liberal democracy to occupy in other people, the problem is,
is literally geographically. If they pull out of the west bank,
they will likely have another situation like they had in Gaza.
And now all of a sudden,
not only do you have rockets going to the south of the country and places like
steroid from you have rockets capable of reaching Tel Aviv and the population
centers of Israel. So what do you do? What do you do?
I don't know. Does anyone know? Not does, does anyone have a rational course?
No.
Really? No. I mean, I think, I think one of the,
the places we've arrived to right is like,
what does Palestinian now nationalism really seek Western liberals like
me want, or for years I told myself,
and I think this was certainly like the view of lots of experts that what
Palestinian nationalism really wanted was a Palestinian state.
Palestinian just want, self-determination like everyone else in the world.
And I am AB absolutely on board with that. The problem is,
is that they're leaders.
And then you look at some of these polls and the numbers are really disturbing.
And they say, no, the goal is not having our own state alongside Israel.
The goal is erasing Israel. The goal is for Israel not to be there.
Right. And then you look at the evidence of all of these peace offers that were,
you know, Oslo and camp David,
and we can go on and on and they were all rejected. So it's like,
is the goal your own land and having a place of your own or is the national,
or have we told ourselves,
and I include myself in this a lie about what Palestinian nationalism,
or at least parts of it seek. And that's really, really upsetting to confront.
So the hardcore position from people like from hespoah
is that Israel is stolen yes.
From Palestinian people. Yes.
Yeah.
And so, but.
Hisalah remembers in Southern Lebanon. Yeah. Right. That's like a, you know,
but they're all Iranian proxies and.
Hamass oh yeah. Hezalah all these, they're all Iranian proxies.
Hezalah is an Iranian proxy. Yeah.
And hamass as well. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and they all their position is that Israel shouldn't exist.
Oh, absolutely.
They do not want any Jewish state between the Jordan river and the Mediterranean
sea. They believe that any,
any Jewish presence in the middle east is hertical and that's.
What they believe. That's probably also, um,
accentuated by our support for Israel. Right.
Cuz the United States is fully in support of Israel, militarily politically,
socially.
Mm. Yeah. I mean, that's like saying, you know,
I'm trying to think of the right analogy here. I mean, they're,
they're Nile like these are, these are terrorist,
unless you think terror like terrorism is rational.
I don't think that anything is accentuated by like,
I think they would think that about Israel,
whether or not the us was supporting Israel. Right.
Yeah. When you see a situation like that,
where there doesn't seem to be a solution mm-hmm <affirmative> it's.
Well, the solution is shrinking the conflict as much as possible. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I do not believe right now you can resolve the conflict
because Israelis who have lived through times
where it was normal for buses and cafes to just blow up, you know,
the number of people I know who were touched by the second. And defadada like,
I was there during times where, you know,
a CA FA would just blow up down the street.
So like they have been thoroughly disused of the idea
that I think,
I think that many of them have given up on the idea that there could be peace in
the short term. So what can you do right now to make things a little bit better?
You can improve the economic life for people,
for Palestinians living in the west spank and you can try and shrink the
conflict, meaning no settlement expansion.
And I would say pull out of some of these settle Jewish settlements that are
like, you know,
far flung and that the Israeli army is sort of protecting for no reason.
But I think that's the best case scenario for right now, for right now.
And there's a,
there's a book I think it's called them catch 67 by Mika Goodman that I would
recommend to people that's about how to shrink the conflict and that for now
being the best case scenario. But again, it's like,
why does you have to ask yourself,
like why does everyone in the world obsessed about this particular conflict?
Yeah. There's a weird obsession with it.
Why do you think that is?
I think it's inescapable that part of it is an obsession with the Jews.
Like there are 500,000 Palestinians living in Lebanon,
most of whom live in refugee camps.
And by official Lebanese law are barred from being lawyers,
from being doctors, for being accountants. It's a horrible situation.
Do you think most people in the world know about the situation of the
Palestinian imiseration in Lebanon?
They don't even know Palestinians are in Lebanon or in Jordan.
They have no idea. The reason is because you know,
it's like Palestinian lives matter when people that are hurting them are Jews.
They don't seem to matter when the people that are hurting them are other Arabs.
That's one of the things that I wanted to talk to you about it's that this
acceptance of antisemitism almost globally mm-hmm <affirmative> is
unique. It's not, it's a,
it's a weird racism or a weird
discrimination. A a it's weird. It doesn't,
it doesn't parallel with any other sort of discrimination. Right?
It's like people aren't sitting around thinking about how, you know,
left-handed people or Koreans are uniquely evil.
Like they're sitting around thinking about that with regard to the Jews.
There's going to be a certain amount of population,
certain percentage of the population,
no matter what that's gonna hold those beliefs.
And these have been passed down for thousands of years.
Yes. And the challenge is to keep society as
like healthy,
as possible to keep those forces at bay.
Really. I mean, it's, it's really,
it's unbelievable the extent to which it's, it's become accepted. Like
I'll give you an example. Like there was, um,
and this is the way that anti- Zionism presents itself. The anti- Zionism,
I think is the modern form.
One of the modern forms of anti-Semitism because what else do you call a
movement that says that the Jewish state that already exists does not have a
right to exist? Like that sounds like, oh,
that's like a cool theory, but it's like, it exists. They live there.
They are surrounded by people that want to murder them.
So what are you suggesting that it just like goes away,
like the effect of it would be nothing less than unbelievable bloodshed.
And yet lots of people in this world are going around saying,
calling themselves anti Zionist.
Do you think that they've,
it seems like almost a sentiment that gets expressed that hasn't been
really examined. Yes. So it's a, like a coory.
It has to do with criticism of Israel. Like people should be able,
Israeli government is full of like, unitix just like our government,
just like any other normal country, but it's like,
Israel's not treated like a normal country.
It's treated in a way like this has these superpowers,
both superpowers to like affect peace in the middle east and superpowers
to like, like a super villain.
It's both at once people hate a country that doesn't exist and they love a
country that doesn't exist.
They project themselves and their ideas of things onto this place.
And it's just like a normal country.
That's where it's,
it's so strange cuz it that's where there really doesn't seem to be a way out of
this because it's an idea.
That's not that hasn't been full explored, but has been expressed.
So frivolously almost mm-hmm <affirmative>.
Well, it's just, it's like, if you think about,
think about if there was a movement in the world that suggested that,
you know, the Japanese weren't real people and the,
and Japan does not have a right to exist.
Like think about how crazy that sounds. Right.
But that's a normal thing that a lot of people believe.